---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - iNdUstRy
---

## The Role of Industry in Open Source

*make your blog post: reflect on the class discussion about industry use of and participation in producing open source*

It's always interesting to see how the big boys at the industry engage in something like Open Source that seems so wholesome and community driven. If you haven't noticed, I honestly have a very skewed and negative connotation of industry. When I think of industry, I think of corporate. And then I think about greed and I worry that open source software, especially by smaller companies or even just the general population, are being taken advantage of by a large scale corporation that can easily afford to pay workers a sizeable wage and who have the skills. I always think that open source is a way to get free code and not have to worry about spending extra to give someone a job. 

Though that may be true in some cases, the lecture on the role of industry to open source introduces me to a more positive outlook of industries. In other words, how they can actually benefit the open source communities in a way that is supportive of the contributors but also the users of the software.

I appreciate the emphasis of Open Source not being a business model itself. This promotes the idea that people don't make software open source for the capital gain but rather that it's something that can influence others to create a business based off of it. In other words, highlighting the impact of open source to communities and allowing communities to grow and expand their own business models in a way that they interpret. I believe this helps with keeping open source truly altruistic and proves the power of open source. Again to re-emphasize, that isn't always the case and businesses still use open source in a way to cater to their financial goals, however for the most part, and as we have seen in the class with multiple examples, companies have engaged in a multitude of ways to support the developers of open source code in order to use the code. This is done by the open source software itself as they engage in revenue models such as having paid additional features, dual licensing, and donations to promote neutrality in the projects, but to also provide free tiers for users but also paid tiers for larger corporations who can and want to pay for additional features that they develop.  

This is largely related to the Open Core concept which provides two different versions of software, which I find pros and cons to, but I need to remember that developers deserve to be paid for the work and if that requires having a separate tier that people would pay to use, why not? Not only that, but it helps to keep the main developers involved with their code and allows for companies to also benefit at the developers are the ones who are extremely knowledgeable and experienced with the codebase. Thus, it provides a two way streak of assistance that is very positive. 

Overall, I thought I may seem negative, I truly do find value with the direction that industry takes when engaging with open source resources. There's so much value to not gate-keeping resources, especially if it's something that is repeatedly used. Not only does that save time but it also saves resources that can incrementally help the environment in some distant way. So, I find that there is so much value with providing so many open resources, whether it be in the film industry to standardized color management or to have a shared Linux-based core like the auto industry, it makes everything related in a way that is understandable and accessible to a wider mass of people. 

In conclusion, there is such a complex relationship of industry and open source and there are many ways to gain but to also help promote the open source mission to provide code in a way that is shareable and collaborative. 

## Course Reflection and Thoughts
It's so insane how close the end of the semester is. This class has really taught me to be more aware and engaged in OS communities as it is honestly so impactful and community embracing. 

At this point in time, my group is doing such great things with p5.js and though the issues get snatched up so fast, everyone is doing best with what they have and recognizing the value of what have done and the community we have built because of this class!! 

I can't wait to see what else we can do and what more we can add to p5.js!