---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Active Listening 👂🔊
---

## Class Stand Ups 

This week, we focused primarily on group work and getting to know what projects other groups selected. Honestly, all of the projects selected are one's that I've never heard of or that I know only slightly through the project evaluations, so it's going to be extra interesting learning about the platform and the work that each team does on the codebase. 

In context of the stand ups, every group did such a great job at being concise in describing what their project is and what they've done so far. It might be me reading a little too much into it, but it's so fun seeing how the teams interact and work together. Everyone seems really passionate in the project selected and all the teams created look as if all the group members "perfectly" aligned. In other words, they match each other's energy which is a great thing!  

Not only that, but it was reassuring to me that for the most part we were all on the same page and troubleshooting the development environment. I, for some reason, always feel very nervous in the early stages of a project, so it's really calming to know that everyone is still testing and getting familiarized with the codebase. There are some outliers who are very engaged and already investigating issues, so it can be stressful, but I always take a step back to re-analyze that everyone goes at their own pace and expertise levels. There's no need to compare or feel bad as long as I know I'm staying on top of my work and being as engaged to contributing to p5.js as I can be! 

My group is geninuely so awesome! We all have a seriously-unserious mindset in the context of knowing when we need to be working, but also balancing it out with getting to know one another and just chilling. It's a no pressure, work on what you can environment for now that I really appreciate. I obviously am biased and think that my team is the best, so I hope that everyone also has that mindset towards their own team! 

Overall, all of the teams seem perfectly curated and it's nice to know that we all are relatively on the same pace of being familiarized with our projects. I can't wait to see how everyone contributes to their open source repos.

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I will always be a little pessimistic no matter how good a situation is. In other words, I really hope that my group's chill personalities don't create too much complacency to a point where it's as if we aren't doing anything. I'm sure we are all on a Spring Break mindset right now, and hope that we can lock in when coming back from break!   

Overall, I will keep reiterating, I really do love this class. It's so fun and engaging to be in a class of intellectuals who do seem to care about CS and are very knowledgable. I honestly have never had a class that is this diverse and engaging, so I'm glad to be here and not graduate from NYU thinking that all the CS classes were a bummer. 

