---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - To Team or Not to Team
---

## GROUP TIME

Who knew the day was so soon? We finally got our group assignments and it's great! Being able to meet everyone on my team for the rest of the semester was truly great as everyone is amazing and super talented. It's really nice knowing that we all get along super well and were able to joke and have a great time. 

Not only that, but it was good to know that we were able to _lock in_. In other words, get down to business. 👩🏻‍💻🤯 We were able to establish our Team Agreements and were always on the same page. I don't want to jinx anything, but we make a pretty neat team. There was a blend of humor and seriousness, that for me is critical and very appreciated. I hate when things are taken too seriously, and in being able to laugh and learn about one another, I have justified hope that we will do so well. 

A prime example of us working well was our ability to quickly decide on our final project: [p5.js](https://p5js.org/). 

Our deducing skills to determine this project consisted of all of us listing projects that we were interested in contributing to. We then went through each repository and the project evaluations to decipher which projects actually seemed workable and which projects had space for first timers to actually contribute to. After that, we pretty much ended with p5.js which was a great thing as we appreciated it's website's interface and the features! We were smoothly able to fork the repo and learn more about the projects community with joining the discord and reading their contributing guidelines. 

So overall, my group is wonderful. We haven't hit any obstacles yet, besides learning how to better use p5.js and it's components. We aim to do so by following tutorials and speaking to individuals that we know who have used it before! We are really excited to start making contributions!!

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

My group is geniunely phenomenal. I couldn't have asked for a better quad! Not only that but I'm really excited to learn more about the project. I'm also even more excited knowing that this was a project that was started at NYU, so it makes it even more personal intriguing. 

Random fact, I've never heard about this project, but after being in this class I can't help but constantly always hear it from others. It's so weird but nice knowing that when people mention it, I actually know what it is now! Not only that, but the fact that it actually is something that is so interesting and that I'd love to engage in further on my own time! 
