---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - The Last Spring Break
---

## back in business

It’s so crazy thinking that it was the last spring break of my undergraduate career. Pros and cons definitely. I’m more grateful for the experience and the short time I got to relax! I went to Niagara Falls and I worked the rest of it at my job at Bobst. I have to define my break as a glimpse into the future! Working 10-6 everyday, similarly to a 9-5, it’s crazy how little time I felt I had!! Nonetheless, I still was able to balance my time and I’m sure that with more practice I’ll be able to understand how to best navigate and split my work and personal time. 

Anyways, for spring break I didn’t really work on any projects or contributions. I received my mid semester grades and am pretty calm that I can move on and end the semester highly!! I did also attend a p5.js meeting which was very informative in searching for new resources to assist with. The meeting was a continuation of a previous one where they were presenting examples, so I felt kind of lost, however the developers and maintainers were very sweet with clarifying what was going on and how to approach contributing!  

I hope to keep exploring the issues and make a PR soon!! 

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

My nerves will never die down completely. However, they have lessened as I comment on more issues and communicate more with the community of p5.js. Everyone is super sweet and I'm excited to keep communicating and searching for ways I can communicate with the environment. 

My group is doing wonderfully and I'm super grateful to have such dedicated teammates. I need to do more of an active job to find contributions, my goal is to put more time aside to do so! 