---
layout: post
title: Week 15 - The Last of Me 
---

## The End
This week really showed how much value a good team can add to one's experience. It can make or break an experience and I'm so lucky that my excellent group made such a great experience. Honestly, I love and appreciate my group so much. Everyone did such a wonderful job at being involved and supportive of one another, it was just so nice and rewarding. No one was not attentive or only there for a grade, and I feel like the energy we crafted for our team made such a difference. We were able to make such a beautiful slide deck and our presentation (in my opinion) was so great. We put in so much work and effort in and it was truly really beautiful and rewarding. Not only that, but it didn't feel like anyone was slacking and we didn't have to nudge others to stay focused. We had challenges like every group does, but we didn't let them slow us down, instead we were able to work as a team to get through them! So by the time we presented, it was so easy and smooth to present as everyone knew what was going on and was truly passionate and confident in our collaboration which made it feel wonderful!

I can keep going on forever about how my team excelled. We just bonded so well, and I loved how our team was able to finish each others sentences. Everyone knew what to do and how to navigate and communicate when necessary. Even with the presentation, we made sure to be firm and flexible in order to be able to practice and work alongside one another. That balance and communication overall made everything feel smooth instead of stressful which I believe allowed us to do so wonderfully!

As for the presentation I saw this week, to list them: KeyCloak, Nanobot, Affine, Actual Budget, and Frosty. All the projects were so interesting and so fascinating. I loved being able to see what kind of issues other teams were working on as they brought in such different and unique components. Everyone's project was so unique, and I appreciated being able to actually experience and see slide decks on the project to gain a firmer grasp on what their projects were actually about visually and not just audibly during the stand ups. I have to admit that honestly all the projects intimidated me. I was so nervous that everyone was going crazy and adding hundreds of new lines to the code. It was scary and made me second guess the value of my individual contributions and made me wish that I did a lot more or tried harder. However, with time and the reassurance of my team, I taught myself to not compare. Everyone has different levels of expertise and different project environments, so I shouldn't diminish my contributions, especially if it helped the p5.js community even a little bit. On top of that, I was also really appreciative to notice that issue searching was not just an issue for our time but a collective issue. It made my regrets on choosing p5.js fly away and allowed me to truly see and put value in the work that I did do. No comparisons needed at all!!

Overall, this week was one of those moments where everything just clicked within my group and in the classroom. It was so wholesome seeing the culmination of everything and showed that group work isn't something to fear, but rather something exciting if you had a group as awesome as mine 😊😊😊

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

I want to thank Professor for her ability to have such a fun and collaborative class. It's so nice to actually speak to people in a CS class and get to know them on a deeper level then just asking for help on homework. It gave me such a new perspective and appreciation for CS especially as it has thoroughly exhausted me. Not only that, but open source was something that I didn't really have exposure to much before. It is always nice to know that there are intelligent people out there who still care about others over making money. I can't wait to keep exploring open source projects, and I know that I'll always check the licensing of a project in order to protect others and give credit where it's due!! Much love and gratitude professor!! Thank you for such an amazing class <3 