---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Reflecting and Reflecting
---

## Reflecting on the Reading

For this week's class we focused on examining the [Cathedral vs Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/) by Eric S. Raymond. Raymond addresses the concept of a cathedral vs bazaar model of development for software and differentiates the two with 1: development that encompasses a small group of intellectual wizards, while on the other hand 2: everyone, with at least some form of knowledge/experience on the topic. 

When reading/listening to this passage, I am more inclined to agree with Raymond's perspective of valuing the bazzar model more so than the cathedral (I can admit that I do find value in the cathedral model as well). More specifically, I do agree that having more eyes on a software is more beneficial to identifying bugs, issues, and cracks in the program. If there are only a select few viewers and users, it can be hard to recognize issues if someone not only treats the software as their baby, but also if they're constantly reviewing the same code each day, they can start to assume accuracy or become blinded to little errors. In addition, it's nice to build a community of users and to acknowledge that everyone can play a role in developing the software that they use. Whether it be beta testers or users, everyone is helpful in viewing the app from a seperate standpoint and use case. It's nice to know that there are people who are using the program but that they also care enough to provide feedback to continously improve the program and keep encouraging users to return while creating new ones. This expands the program's reach, while expanding the community and it's inclusitivity. One more benefit of the bazzar model is getting people from all backgrounds to look at the software. If there are only technical people looking at the program, they may only care about the functionality and the bug reports. With more people and more users, there's more people to make notes on the UI, the edgecases, the interactivity, which can make a program better! 

On the other hand, I do find the cathedral model beneficial for one specific part: being able to have quality maintainers of the project who know the codebase thoroughly. Thus, I find that a blend of both could create the best form of community!

### Impact of AI

As for how the cathedral vs bazzar model of development work in reference to AI tools, I feel like it can make it more complicated but also more advantageous. For one, it provides a way for developers to generate a lot of code within seconds which can be good because it saves time and creates work that is cohesive. It however, creates and gives power to generative tools as being the "cathedral" because all power is given to them to create the functionality and structure of it. Not only that but AI can be more undertanding of the code and "efficient" in some way, however AI is not human. It will not fully grasp the human needs and it can't remember the full extremity of the codebase. It will make projects so much more difficult and time consuming for the "bazaar" to review and rectify any bugs. It will also remove a whole community aspect of the bazaar if everyone refers to AI to debug and to create. It becomes just a vibe coded project that could potentially be maintained by one person and destroys the whole concept of community. Not only that, but it forgets how fragile and incomplete AI is, and it's overreliance is not good for software and the overal enviornment. 

## Reflecting on Group Work

This week we had another set of standups and it was so nice to hear about the updates of each team! Every group did a great job with conveying their PRs and it was so silly hearing professor state something about not needing to hear the whole specific PRs or issues, but groups going against that an going into detail. It just shows so much passion and excitment and it's so fun! I also appreciate hearing where everyone is coming from and what kinds of PRs they are doing as it makes me more aware of what parts I could tackle or look into on p5.js. 

As for my group, I love my group. It's so much fun. We are going easy, but have a roadblock of trying to find enough and sufficient issues to tackle because people claim them so fast and if not, then they're not as simple to grasp. So I really hope that with time I can scoop one up or find something that we can do in order to get at least one PR for me down on the board!

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

It's going good! My group will continue to lock in to find issues to resolve!! 