---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Open...
---

## Exploration of Open...

I unfortunately was stranded in Texas and was unable to see what topic my fellow classmates did, however I was able to review the wiki page and look through the summaries of each open... project. It was really nice to see such a vast collection of resources that were open-sourced and free for everyday people to use. It's honestly pretty heartwarming knows that in CS, science, education, and financial fields, there are people who want to make learning more inclusive and available to everyone. All of the resources on the wiki just go to show how there are kind-hearted people who want to share their knowledge in an accessible way, not locked behind paywalls or consumed by trying to capitalize. For example, with my topic that I chose, Open Educational Resources, I loved how it was teachers giving back to teachers. There's a commonly known fact that teachers don't get paid enough for the effort and work that they put into making lesson plans, helping children, and honestly raising the next generation in academics and social settings. OER, more specifically, provides a space for teachers to hopefully save time if they know they can rely on trust worthy peers who have had successfully integrated and taught the lesson prior. The lessons being open, also promote collaboration and transparency which is so kind and invigorating to learn as it expands community and innovation.  

When looking at the collection, I appreciated how impactful some of the projects were as some things such as e-NABLE and Open Source Ventilator (OpenLung) are using open source to create affordable prosthetic limbs for people in need as well as have a resource to respond to global health crises by designing accessible medical equipment. These projects aren't just online resources, but can improve people's lives and access to essential resources which is very meaningful. In addition, the list has some fun projects such as Stellarium with exploring the night sky from anywhere in the world and OpeningTree which helps chess players analyze games and strategies. Overall, these projects show how essential open resources are, but also how a group of people who care are able to use their creativity in a way that helps so many others, without any major intentions of self-gain.

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

I honestly love this class and I'm really sad to know that the end is near and that graduation is so soon. 

My group has done such a phenomenal job at working to improve our contributions and honestly just bond with one another. It was so much fun knowing that we put in so much effort into communicating with p5.js and being a part of their community. 

I also feel a lot more confident with my contributions to the team as I was actually able to find issues to work on, but also as I was able to actually stop being worried and search for issues or bugs and report them so I could make some actual impact on the p5.js repositories! 