---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - How to Behave Properly (essential?!)
---

## Code of Conduct

When growing up, the "Golden Rule" was always thrown around -- "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." In other words, reciprocate the same energy and kindness you would like others to show you. I always took this personally and had the tenacity to respect and empathize with others. In some way, I thought this was common sense and basic human decency. 

So, it may come as a shock to realize that not everyone learned this. At this point, I'm just being satirical, but it really does seem comical to know that we, as working or soon to be working professionals, need a guide to dictate how we behave. Then again, that's a whole social debacle with laws and rules that can become way too complicated with a complex society. Thus, the existence of a Code of Conduct shouldn't be shocking nor shouldn't be opposed.

### Existing Code of Conducts in Organizations

In my opinion, as a means of predicting the unpredicable, a Code of Conduct can actually be helpful. *(Base line, if you're a good person who is nice or at least indifferent to others, the Code of Conduct should not deter you or ever affect you UNLESS someone else is the reason)* It is, for the most part, a broad documentation that establishes the work enviornment of a company and the community they promote. In this case, usually how welcoming the enviornment is and how the organization will get involved and enforce the policies in situations where the work evniornment is no longer safe and enjoyable. 

In this case, I believe a Code of Conduct is quite necessary for all projects. Even if it seems like it is not "necessary", it's never bad to be overly prepared in case something might happen. The documentation gives room to understand that bad behavior will not be condoned. It can tackle unacceptable behavior and outline grounds for consequence if someone were to become uncomfortable. It helps protects the community and leaves room for interpretation and discourse in times where enforcement of policies is necessary. Not only that but it gives an organization time to check if their members actually read the handbook, and it primarily promotes a welcoming enviornment. 

To provide an example, the [Go Project](https://golang.org/) provides a fairly detailed Code of Conduct that adapts from the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/). In both of the Code of Conducts, they address the project's pledge/purpose, their standards, responsibilities, scope, enforcement, and attributions. In my opinion, all these topics being essential for the baseline of a project and actually showing the members that the org cares about their wellbeing and workplace culture. I do have to note, that although Go adapts the Contributor Covenant, I appreciate the changes that Go has. 
- For one, adding a section to express more about themselves and the specific goals of the Code of Conduct. I find that it makes their Code of Conduct more personal, especially when they mention "Gopher values." It more strongly defines how they expect the communication to work and how to avoid situations that could potentially provoke others. This might reveal previous circumstances that have led to these issues, but also that they want to avoid future situations happening. Not only that, but it expresses that people are complicated and that discipline according to the Code of Conduct should be refered to in times where it's necessary, not times where it could potentially happen in case of misunderstanding or overreaction. 
- Another difference that Go has is that it has a "Conflict Resolution" section instead of an "Enforcement" section. I appreciate this difference as it allows the org to address more directly and in more detail, what will happen if a conflict arrises. In the original Covenant, it's really straight forward and provides who to contact, what will be enforced, and that any complaints will be reviewed. Though Go does that too, they provide more details after firstly emphasizing the ability to directly address issues with one another before involving others. This can enhance team building and interactivity with one another, while also providing the opportunity to make complaints if the circumstances are dire. 
Overall, I find that Go does a great job at adapting the Contributor Coventant in a way that is more personable, detailed, and relevant to their organization's missions. 

There are other forms of Code of Conducts, such as for [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php), the [Sugar Labs](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) and [React](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). 
- Eclipse adapts the Contributor Covenant, but unlike the Go project, adds additionally categories such as Responsibility, Investigation of Potential Code Violations, Actions, No Retaliation, and Amendments. I believe these categories exist as a means to go into more extreme detail on the steps taken to invvesigate the code violations. Though the Go project does this in their Conflict Resolution section, Eclipse does so in a way that address who is involved and sees the complaints, but also to remove any fears that people who make such complaints aren't in trouble or worried of being exposed. In doing such, Eclipse promotes an enviornment that is more collaborative, yet free for individuals to feel comfortable in reporting conflict when an investigation may occur. Not only that, but I appreciate the Amendment section to make aware that the code may change based on situations that may occur to show tha all issues will always be addressed even if it is not clearly worded in the Code. 
- Sugar Labs addresses Code of Conductive in more of a collaborative manner. Based on Ubuntu Code of Conduct instead of the Contributor Covenant, Sugar Labs tends to focus more on behavioral guidelines and productivity for the team. It addresses being a respectful team player and to consult others with disagreement. It also tells individuals to step down from projects in a least disruptive manner. Overall, Sugar Labs just seems more focused on the success of the project and the team and how an individual should try to their best to be a team player, even when there are complications present. 
- On the other hand, the React project is one that also adapted the Contributor Covenant. Interestingly enough, React is almost an exact copy of the Covenant. Though its not bad, it's so interesting to see that it's not more personalized, especially since React is so widely used. The only difference is with the second paragraph in the Scope section that expresses how the Code of Conduct applies outside of the project space too. I believe that this was added due to conflict that could've happened before and that it needed to be amended to address situations that may have caused conflict. Overall, there are many uses of the Code of Conduct, which can have a positive effect on the project if used wisely and to help protect the members of the project. 

## Value of a Code of Conduct

Overall, the implementation of a Code of Conduct may come off as unnecessary as everyone that is hired or a part of a collaborative project should know to be kind in a teamwork setting. However, this is not always the case as conflict will and can always arrise when least expected, thus why it's important to have a Code of Conduct just in case conflict arises. Not only that, but it also provides members of a project to feel like they can be heard and protected. For example, like in the talk [“How to Drive Consensus and Transparency Within Open Source Communities”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZYwTDNA3Uac) featuring Jill Lovato & Trishan de Lanerolle, it's important to have an enviornemnt, especially in the context of Open Source, that can thrive collaboratively. In my opinion, it's essential that there are agreements on the direction of a project and how to get to that solution. It is also possible that things change along the way and that there are conflict that may halt the projects at times. However, it's about finding that community that is able to share their understanding and understand a unified direction that everyone can work on. It may involve sacrifices and settling, but it also involves ensure that everyone's voice is heard. In this case, a Code of Conduct may come handy to ensure that checks are in place, in case a conflict may become too stubborn and interfere with the success of a project. Additionally, the video addresses transparency, which I believe is always necessary to ensure that everyone is involved or able to catch up and understand what is going on. This helps to reduce confusion or overrealiance on others if there is nothing that is clearly documented. It can also cause problems if nothing is openly established or enforced (like through a code of conduct) as people may believe that they can act in any way without consequences. Ultimately, however, in having a Code of Conduct, no matter the situation, there is a document and policy that ensures that conflict will be resolved, and that no matter the problem, it will be resolved in a way that is meaningful to the team's and the project's success.   

And with that, it's important to emphasize and sum that it's always good to be a person who is open to work with others in a respectful manner, with or without a Code of Conduct

## Course Reflection and Thoughts
It's been 2 weeks in this class and I'm honestly having a blast. Being able to engage with so many people and to meet fellow CS students is honestly so much fun and really rewarding. I can't wait to keep up with the team activities, engage in the lectures, and see how the year progresses. I'm going to keep saying that because the classes are going super great and I really hope to say that in my reflection every week!!

