---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Grind Time
---

## Days before THE DAY

It's about a week until our presentation. It's almost timeeee. It's crazy, but honestly really calm! My group is doing our thing, working on our presentation and trying to close up any lose ends in time for the presentation. 

Professor has emphasized to us that we need to focus on getting our presentation done instead of prioritizing issue searching and it has been good. We have our template done, and we have divided and conquered all of our parts. We just need to lock in on what to say and then it'll be time for the presentations!!

## Troubles as of late

It's been kind of difficult recently, but also throughout the extent of this project, to find an issue to work on. Everything was claimed so quickly, and I love that the community is so active, however it was also a bad thing. There were so many teams involved, so many external projects, and so many steps that it required for major things to actually be incorporated that it became quite exhausting. I really appreciated the ability to talk to the devs and maintainers, but it honestly didn't equate to not being able to see any of my work being successful. 

Not only that, but so many things happened and I had to realize... life happens. It's okay, people are doing their own things, so it's important to just be patient. It's not a game to try and get x amount of contributions. I need to remember that it's an experience and learning curve of getting involved with a new community and codebase and trying to help in any way that I am able to. So, though I feel disappointed that I couldn't do more or that I didn't claim an issue as fast as someone else, it's okay! 

Next time, I hope to engage in a project that I actually use and that I am more experienced in, in order to implement features and assist with features that will make a change an impact. In other words, maybe going to a community that needs more help, rather than one that has too many people, that there isn't enough work to go around. 

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

This presentation is scaring me... but I know it will be fine. The presentation and the anticipation is always the worst before it actually happens. Once I'm done, I'm going to be cruising 😎😎😎😎