---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Being an Obsertvant Audience Member 🤓☝️ 
---

## Presenting Our Presentations

Well, my group did not present yet in class, however it was super great watching other groups. They all did such an amazing job and the extensions were so well developed and thought out. Honestly speaking, some of the projects were extensions that I would want to use and actually contribute to. 

I really appreciated how prepared and on top of it each group was. It felt like watching a pitch on their extensions and it made me more intrigued. From practical to silly, there was such a great range. I especially enjoyed the browser screen pop-up and the drowsy-lobotomy video filter. They were both extension ideas that I found really unique and interesting to explore. Not only that, but I appreciated how detailed everyone's projects were and that they were all different! 

### Reflecting on My Group

Although my group did not present, the biggest take-away I had from interacting with my group and seeing others is how creative everyone is. I love how engaged everyone was and how knowledgeable they were with their project. I also noticed how divided the group work was, in the sense where each group member seemed to play into their skills. For example, if someone was more confident in their coding skills vs their presenting skills. On the other hand, I also felt like my group played into this role breakdown. Everyone was able to contribute based on their skills and it helped to make our successful extension. I'm really grateful for such an amazing group because we all contributed in meaningful ways to ensure that we are prepared for our presentation on Monday!

## Presenting Styles

### Presenting from the Videos

All three videos were really interesting to watch and I liked how much they emphasized the importance of open source coding. More specifically the context in which they promote culture and long-term sustainability, especially in a time where capitalism thrives and commercialization is so common, I appreciate the focus on collaboration. In addition, the talks on how there's so much value of AI and the how it will make a major impact of software development and potentially even cause risks. As a result, it's vital to re-evaulate the construction of development and the history of software development to ensure that risks and mistakes and minimized, especially in a new day and age that is rapidly changing. 

### How to Present
This week you saw several student presentations as well as presentations from OSS conference. 
- Comment on the actual style of presentations - what can you learn from observing presentations made by others? 
- how should your own style of presentation improve based on these observations?

Presenting has always been something that changes depending on how interested and knowledgeable I am on the topic. I would never feel 100% confident when presenting, but one thing that I will do is fake it till I make it. I will always remember that the anticipation is the hard part, and all that matters is that I am heard and understood and that my main points are conveyed clearly. 

So, watching these presentations and videos helped me to understand the importance of firstly, understanding my topic in great detail. All of the presenters in the video exuded so much confidence and were very authentically themselves. They seemed very passionate and conversational and also had a clear structure. Not only that, but they have such strong and purposeful storytelling which pushes me to incorporate myself more in presentations even when there is an academic component to it and I might feel like I have to be more "serious."

Overall, with the videos and the other groups' presentation, I aim to have more passion and structure. Though it's important to hear and convey the concepts in a way the presenter understands, it's also important to have a presentation that an audience can comprehend and have a valid takeaway. In my mind, a meaningful presentation should have at least one memorable component, no matter how long ago it was viewed. More specifically, with the class presentations and the videos, I honestly can name a takeaway and recall all the extensions, which showed how clearly they were able to communicate their product. 

## Course Reflection and Thoughts

I can't wait to start engaging in more open source project and finding the ones that I feel like I can make a meaningful contribution to!  